User guide for rapidjson version 0.11 and 0.2.

= 1. Introduction =
*rapidjson* is a C++ [http://www.json.org/ JSON] parser and generator. In other words, it helps a C++ program to read JSON data and write JSON data.

== 1.1. Requirements   ==
*rapidjson* is written in C++ with very few dependencies (no BOOST, no STL). 

It is designed to be run on 32-bit and 64-bit platforms.

During development, *rapidjson* is mainly tested with these compilers
  * Visual C++ 2008, 2010
  * Intel C++ Composer XE 2011
  * GNU Compiler Collection (gcc) 3 and 4

and these platforms
  * Microsoft Windows
  * OS X
  * Linux

But other compilers/platforms may work as well. Please report to us on other compilers/platforms that can successfully adopted *rapidjson*.

== 1.2. Installation ==
Download the [http://code.google.com/p/rapidjson/downloads/list released packages] or getting the latest source from [http://code.google.com/p/rapidjson/source/browse/ SVN repository].

*rapidjson* is a header-only library. That means, the only thing to be done is to copy `rapidjson/include/rapidjson` and its sub-directories to your project or other include paths.

== 1.3. Tests and examples ==
*rapidjson* include unit tests, performance tests and examples.

If you obtained the release packages, there are build folders (`vs2008`, `vs2010`, `gmake`) in `/rapidjson/build/' already.

Otherwise, please obtain [premake4 http://industriousone.com/premake/download], and then run `rapidjson/build/permake.bat` on Windows, or `rapidjson/build/premake`. These will generates the build folders.

By using Visual C++, build test.sln and/or example.sln in `vs2008` or `vs2010`.

By using GNU make, run GNU make in `build/gmake`, for example

{{{
$make -f test.make config=release32
$make -f example.make config=debug32
}}}

On success, the executable are generated at rapidjson/bin

= 2. Hello World =

The following code is the simplest way of using *rapidjson*. It parses a JSON text string to a DOM tree.

{{{
#include "rapidjson/document.h"
#include <cstdio>

int main() {
    const char json[] = "{ \"hello\" : \"world\" }";

    Document d;
    d.Parse<0>(json);

    printf("%s", d["hello"]);
}
}}}

This program outputs

{{{
world
}}}

= 3. Reader =

= 4. Value and Document =

= 5. Writer =

= 6. Customization = 

== 6.1 Macros ==

== 6.2 Memory Allocator  ==